Backoff limit per Job Index (#3967)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-apps/3850-backoff-limits-per-index-for-indexed-jobs/README.md

do this in order to cut down costs of running the tests in case of compilation
issues that would result in all tests failing.

The following Job configuration could satisfy my use case:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  runPolicy:
    backoffLimitPerIndex: true
    maxFailedIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

#### The Job object too big

With the new field `.status.failedIndexes` the Job object can be significantly
larger as every failed index is recorded in the field. For example, using the
same format as for the `.status.completedIndexes` and allowing for completions
equal to `10^6` the size of the field, in the worst-case scenario is 3.4MB, which

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: I assume the maximal limit on the request, and thus on the object size is 1.5mb: https://etcd.io/docs/v3.6/dev-guide/limit/.

IIUC, the only field that can grow big is `status.completedIndexes`, and its size is up to 295KB. The other fields should be relatively small (e.g. the pod failure policy was estimated to be up to 22KB in its previous KEP). 

I've written a small script that checks the new field size in the worst case scenario, depending on the number of completions, these are some example values:
- 350k - 1.17MB
- 300k - 995KB
- 250k - 819KB
- 200k - 645KB
- 150k - 470KB
- 100k - 295KB

So, if we want to push boundaries 350k should be manageable, but will make future development of Job API problematic. I think a sensible compromise might be somewhere between 100k and 300k.

I would suggest going with 200k will mean up to 940KB for the two fields, as a compromise between functionality and room for future development.

Will also ask sig-scalability folks to confirm the limit and provide their expertise.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Reviewer: Yes, the per-object object size limit is 1.5M AFAIK, but overall we are trying to avoid large objects as they are problematic, especially when changed frequently.

I'm missing full context here, but design with status field growing over time seems to be quite problematic to me.

What alternatives do we have?
Can we e.g. create some dedicated object to store data we need? Or maybe infer the data based on something else?

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: >Yes, the per-object object size limit is 1.5M AFAIK, but overall we are trying to avoid large objects as they are problematic, especially when changed frequently. 

The object will generally be updated only by the Job controller, in a standard sync loop, per job.

In order to limit the size I would like to suggest:
- limit completions to 10^5 if maxFailedIndexes is unspecified
- limit completions to maxFailedIndexes if specified. maxFailedIndexes  <= 10^5.

I will update the KEP with this proposal, as this will only grow the Job roughly twice, still making it safe from the 1.5MB.

> Can we e.g. create some dedicated object to store data we need? 

I think technically we can, but it will be a significant complication, also to Job users who would want to get the list of failed indexes. It would also be a different approach than for keeping succeeded (completedIndexes), which can be confusing. 

Or maybe infer the data based on something else?

We need to record the failed indexes in order to prevent the retries of them. This information isn't currently stored elsewhere.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Reviewer 2: I also wonder about performance implications for updating this field. We will update it 10^5/10^6 times potentially, right? What's the algorithm and time complexity for one update?

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: > Have you considered bitmap in hex?

Yes, but I assumed the list of the failed indexes is very important for the end-user. 

> How about dynamic format to support 10^6:

i think this would also complicate the life of end-users who write controllers to parse the list of indexes. 

However, I get the point that it would be nice to support completions up to 10^6 I think the solution I currently prefer is to constrain the number of failed indexes with `maxFailedIndexes` (needs to be <= 10^5). If you set it, then we can cope with completions being 10^6.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: > Another alternative we could consider is having an implicit limit for failures. For example, if the failures are contiguous and they can be compressed, you can continue having more failures. But if the failures are not contiguous, and we reach a limit for the length of the field, the entire job fails. Could this be an acceptable experience for job users? @jensentanlo

I think having an implicit limit. For example, by constraining the field size by 300KB may result in unpredictable behavior. Assume a user sets completions to 10^6 without controlling for maxFailedIndexes. The Job may occasionally complete (if the failed indexes are consecutive), and occasionally fail to complete if the failed indexes are non-consecutive.

I've added the alternative proposals discussed here to the Alternatives section.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Reviewer 3: In the existing API, the worst case scenario is an Indexed Job with `completions=2e9` (max int32), `parallelism=1e5`. If the last indexes are completed in an interleaved manner, this results in: `1e5*(10+1)` characters, for a total of `~1Mi`.

We can't fit another field with the same size. Then, we need to limit  `maxFailedIndexes` to `1e4`, for a total of `~100Ki`.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Reviewer 4: At least for me, I haven't seen a real workload that goes past 10^4 indices; as a point of comparison, AWS Batch also limits to 10^4. Maybe it would be worth surveying likely users on how big their workloads would actually be for a single indexed job; if no one uses anything larger than this becomes a theoretical discussion.

At some point, I'm guessing that the size of a cluster would come into play as well.

If it does turn out that super-large workloads are useful, then I think the key point is that users need guidance on a reasonable maximum to put. For example:

Maybe worst case is that 10^5 will fail, but the actual probability is minuscule (as confirmed by a monte-carlo simulation), then that would still be fine (with a disclaimer in the documentation). So even with the idea of failing jobs that exceed the memory limit for failed indices, we'd still need some sort of reasonable maximum.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: > 1.4MB is way too close to the limit. I think these fields should use at most one order of magnitude less than the limit. Maybe we should limit maxFailedIndexes at 10^4, when completions is greater than 10^4.

I like the idea of capping maxFailedIndexes at 10^4. I will update the KEP accordingly. Let's see what others think. 

I'm also thinking that leaving completions unlimited for Indexed Jobs is sort of omission that results in 1MB. I would prefer to limit completions in the new mode up to 10^6. Then (with also limiting the maxFailedIndexes at 10^4) it will limit `completedIndexes` at 700k and `failedIndexes` at 70k, so 770k total.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Reviewer 3: It wasn't an omission, as we calculated the maximum size in the KEP. You never know how big people want to process indexes, and just capping parallelism was enough. But sure, capping at 10^6 for the new mode sounds reasonable. We can always relax validation later.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: I see, without capping completions we still should be fine at 1.1MB. On the other hand not capping seems like weird uncontrolled territory, when the Job size might be approaching etcd limit - complicating future additions of new fields, and putting more load on etcd. So, I'm hesitant. Let's see what others say.

For now I propose to limit the completions at 10^6 and maxFailedIndexes at 10^4, parallelism is limited at 10^5 as before.

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: Update: the current proposal after some offline brainstorming of the scalability issues is that we soft-limit completions to 10^5  (with a warning above that value + user-facing documentation warning). parallelism is limited to 10^5 and maxFailedIndexes at 10^4. After the fixed estimations of the worst case scenario the Job status may take 0.44Mi at completions=10^5, and 1.56 (too much) at completions=10^6.

We still want to allow for larger completions, as it might be useful for users aware of the risk, for example:
1. when they user large completions in combination with low parallelism,
2. use reconfigured etcd to support larger objects than 1.5Mi
3. have a reason not to expect the worst case scenario for the distribution of hanging or failed indexes

> could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

Author: Another update after the second round of offline brainstorming: allowed parameters (completions<=10^5, parallelism<=10^5,maxFailedIndexes<=10^5) OR (completions unlimited, parallelism<=10^4, maxfailedIndexes<=10^4). More details in the KEP.  

Resolving as it seems we reached a consensensus and there haven't been any asks here for a while. Feel free to open a new comment.

In order to mitigate this risk we constrain the maximal value of the
`.spec.completions` field to `10^5`, when `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex=true`.
With this limit the size of the field in the worst-case scenario (of
non-consecutive integers from `0` to `.spec.completions-1`) is limited by `295KB`.
Even if the `.status.completedIndexes` reaches its limits, still the size of

> these two fields together will be limited by `690KB`, which is enough for etcd

Author: completedIndexes & failedIndexes. Added this into text to make clear. Also reference this section from Design Details to avoid duplication of the numbers.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

We introduce a new Job API field, called `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex`.
When set to `true` it indicates that the `spec.backoffLimit` field is used to
limit the number of retries, counted independently for all indexes.

Additionally, we propose the `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` to control
the maximal number of failed indexes. Once the number is exceeded the entire
Job is marked Failed and its execution is terminated.

We also propose to extend the PodFailurePolicy with a new action, called
`FailIndex` to allow an index to fail fast before reaching the backoff limit
per index.

### Job API

```golang

// PodFailurePolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled.
// +enum
type PodFailurePolicyAction string

const (
  // This is an action which might be taken on a pod failure - mark the
  // Job's index as failed to avoid restarts within this index.
  PodFailurePolicyActionFailIndex PodFailurePolicyAction = "FailIndex"
  ...
)
...

// JobRunPolicy describes custom policy for running a Job

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Reviewer 5: `PodFailurePolicy` sounds more related to pods, but `MaxFailedIndexes` is a concept for Job I think. But `PodFailurePolicy` is alpha now, maybe we can rename it to `FailurePolicy` and containing the other failure policies.

We can have a `completionPolicy` in parallel with `FailurePolicy`.

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Reviewer 6: @kerthcet IIRC, `podFailurePolicy` graduated to beta in v1.26. So renaming that's field might be hard.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/#using-pod-failure-policy-to-ignore-pod-disruptions

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Author: Yes, I think renaming of `podFailurePolicy` is hard, and I think what it currently does is also conceptually fitting its name. 

For the new fields (`backoffLimitPerIndex` and `maxFailedIndexes`) we have so far proposed:
1. `runPolicy` (as in KEP)
2. `completionPolicy` (I like it, very close to `completionMode: Indexed`)
3. `failurePolicy`

Out of the three I'm more or less equal between 1. and 2. 3. is slightly as it currently fits well, but I'm also considering that the field might be reused for Job success policies.

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Reviewer 5: > podFailurePolicy graduated to beta in v1.26

Then https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/117802

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Author: Thanks for spotting and opening the PR fix!

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Reviewer 3: if we go with `runPolicy` or `completionPolicy` (they are similar enough that we can figure this out in the code review), then we should reuse it for kubernetes/kubernetes#117600

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Author: sg

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Author: @deads2k wdyt? 

The motivation to add `runPolicy` is that the new `backoffLimitPerIndex` field seems to introduce a new mode of operation to indexed jobs. The name is proposed generic so that we don't commit to indexed jobs.

Having said that, I think putting the new fields on the top level avoids the non-obvious naming decision for the field and puts the `backoffLimit` and `backoffLimitPerIndex` next to another, so +1 for moving them to the top level.

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Reviewer 3: ok with me

> type JobRunPolicy struct {

Author: Updated to make the new fields at the top level. Resolving the discussion.

track of the number of failures per index. For this purpose we use the Pod
annotation, `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`, which holds the value
of the number of pod failures for a given index. It is set to `0` for the first
pod created for a given index.

When Job controller sees a failed pod corresponding to a given index, and the
value of the annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` is greater
or equal to the configured backoff limit per index then the index is marked
as failed and added to `.status.failedIndexes`.

When Job controller creates replacement pods for failed pods for a given
index it checks if the index isn't finished yet (it is not in
`.status.failedIndexes` nor `.status.completedIndexes`).
Then, if `x` is the highest `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`
for the index, the newly created pod will have the annotation set to `x+1`.

In order to keep track of the number of failures per index, the Job controller
removes finalizers of a failed pod for a given index, only once the replacement
pod (with incremented value of `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`) is

> created, or the index is marked as failed in `.status.failedIndexes`.

Author: Rephrased this part and added the note.

### Failed indexes format

The format of the `.status.failedIndexes` field is analogous to the one used for
successful indexes, represented by the `completedIndexes` field, which is a
text format grouping consecutive integers into ranges. In a special case, when
the indexes are non-consecutive they are represented by comma-separated numbers.
In the worst-case scenario this is a string of comma-separated even values from
`0` to `.spec.completions-1`. In order to constrain the size of the field we
constrain the number of completions to `10^5`. This is the same constraint as
put on the parallelism for the Indexed Job to make sure that the size of
`completedIndexes` is limited. With this limit the length of the string is
limited by `295k` characters.

### Job completion

When backoff limit per index is used, then we execute indexes until all of them
are completed (either failed or succeeded).

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Author: I have added the note in alternatives about the semantics. Indeed marking Job as failed if any index failed might be more natural to users, for example in the context of integration tests. I may swap the current strategy with the alternative actually. @jensentanlo what is your view?

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Reviewer 4: Is there something that the user should be watching for to conclude that the indexed job has finished running? 

Would the failed condition be applied as soon as a single index fails (or a certain number of indices, if the API is extended in that way) , or would it be applied after all indexes have finished running?

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Reviewer 3: 2 is my pick

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Author: Updated.

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Reviewer 7: How do y'all feel about introducing a new conditions which would differ from complete and failed to better express the state? Just my 2 cents

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Author: I assume it is useful to add the Failed or Complete Job conditions so that the Job object can be interpreted with an older client code. 

Maybe we could have new conditions added along with `Failed` or `Complete`, but it seems that the reason field is enough.

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Reviewer 3: I agree that we should add one of the two conditions for backwards compatibility. And if we have to do that, adding a third condition might be overkill.

> Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when

Author: Resolving the discussion.

suites of integration tests, one suite per index. A failure of one suite should
not interrupt running of other suites. Additionally, I would like to be able
to control the maximal number of retries per index.

The following Job configuration could satisfy my use case:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  backoffLimit: 1
  runPolicy:
    backoffLimitPerIndex: true
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

In this case, we run 10 indexes representing the test suites. We allow for one
failure per index.

#### Story 2

As a CI/CD platform administrator from the [Story 1](#story-1) I want to be able
to control the failures with the pod failure policy. In particular, I want
to be able to use pod failure policy to avoid restarts of some indexes, based
on exit codes.

The following Job configuration could satisfy my use case:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  backoffLimit: 1
  runPolicy:

>     backoffLimitPerIndex: true

Author: The default is 6 as the default in the regular case. The rationale is to avoid confusion of the users with conditional defaults. I have added a section in alternatives on this. I'm open to reassess this based on the community feedback.

>     backoffLimitPerIndex: true

Author: Resolving as the current proposal is to have `backoffLimitPerIndex` which is an int32 without a default.

  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:

>     - action: FailIndex

Author: This action only makes sense when backoffLimitPerIndex=true. Added a note on this in the Job API.

>     - action: FailIndex

Reviewer 3: We can fail validation as well, so that it's not possible to have FailIndex when backoffLimit is not per index

>     - action: FailIndex

Author: Yes, I was implicitly assuming we will add validation to reject the use of FailIndex if used when backoff limit per index isn't used.

### Enforce backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex

We've also considered to support both `backoffLimit` and integer
`backoffLimitPerIndex`. In that case the Job would be marked failed if the
global counter of failures `backoffLimit` is reached, as well as if the
index-scoped limit is hit.

However, we don't see a natural use case for this, so it seems an unnecessary
complication. Also, the default value for `backoffLimit` of 6 might often be
not enough when `backoffLimitPerIndex` is used, leading to potential mistakes.

### Use int field

We've considered to use a int `backoffLimitPerIndex` field. Here is an example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  backoffLimit: 1
  runPolicy:
    backoffLimitPerIndex: 4
  ...
```

However, it is not clear what to do with the regular `backoffLimit` then.
Here are a couple of options, but none is tempting:
1. respect both backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex, but we
   prefer to avoid respecting both backoff limits to avoid confusion
   (see [Enforce backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex](#enforce-backofflimit-and-backofflimitperindex)).

> 2. do not set the `.spec.backoffLimit` by defaulting, then Job

Reviewer 2: I don't feel strongly, but I like backoffLimitPerIndex as number. API seems more local. I was thinking of variant 2 i.e. enforce only one is specified and disable backoffLimit semantics if backoffLimitPerIndex is specified. The argument with downgrade seems tricky even for the currently proposed option -- downgrade would significantly change the semantics, so I'm not sure it counts as non-breaking.

Author: Yes, the semantics is very different, but it would not fail. I think the situation is similar with the introduction of Indexed Jobs: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/2214-indexed-job#upgrade--downgrade-strategy. In that case also the semantics is very different, and on downgrade the regular Jobs would be used (so some applications would't get the expected index env. variable). 

if we allow for not setting backoffLimit, then then the controller itself will break on downgrade.

  // The value is might be in range from 0 to 10^5.
  // +optional
  MaxFailedIndexes *int32
}

// JobSpec describes how the job execution will look like.
type JobSpec struct {
  ...

  // Specifies the policy for running a Job. In particular, it allows to enable
  // the backoff limit per index.
  // +optional
  RunPolicy *JobRunPolicy
  ...
}

type JobStatus struct {
  ...

  // FailedIndexes holds the failed indexes when
  // `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex=true`.
  // The indexes are represented in the text format analogous as for the
  // `completedIndexes` field, ie. they are kept as decimal integers
  // separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
  // more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
  // last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
  // For example, if the failed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
  // represented as "1,3-5,7".
  // +optional
  FailedIndexes *string
}
```

### Tracking the number of failures per index

In order to determine if the backoff limit per index is exceeded we keep
track of the number of failures per index. For this purpose we use the Pod

> annotation, `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`, which holds the value

Reviewer 5: If https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3322 supported, will it reduce the maintenance cost of Job api.

Author: I think we will be better of indeed if the container restarts are managed by Kubelet (when maxRestartTimes is used). Then, the regular backoffLimit can play a role of maxFailedIndexes.

Reviewer 5: If we do have the usecases, I think we can redesign it from the scratch(maxRestartTimes respects restartPolicy=Never). But it needs to be discussed further. So the general idea is:
If we support maxRestartTimes in pod.Spec, which respects all restartPolicy, then we can sink the capacities of backOffLimitPerIndex to the pod level, the main difference here is Job controller will recreate the pods when restartPolicy=Never, currently, pod is searching for a new restart policy as recreate itself rather than restart, if it's implemented, than seems all the gaps are gone?

Author: > IIUC that linked KEP is for OnFailure pods, which are explicitly excluded from this proposal, at least initially, see non goals. When the linked proposal reaches GA we can consider expanding the scope of this feature.

Yes, if the linked KEP (`maxRestartTimes` is supported at the pod level), the we could re-asses the scope of this KEP if maxRestartTimes is available.

Author: > So the general idea is:
If we support maxRestartTimes in pod.Spec, which respects all restartPolicy, then we can sink the capacities of backOffLimitPerIndex to the pod level

I think that when `restartPolicy: Never`, then it is Job controller that needs to handle the backoffLimitPerIndex, as the pod is deleted / recreated. It is only when `restartPolicy: OnFailure`, when we can delegate controlling the number of restarts to kubelet.

Reviewer 3: Note that kubelet can only do so much. For example, it cannot keep count of the number of restarts after a pod preemption, because there would be a new pod.

results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow
for the use case of a more controller downgrade.

### Tracking the number of failures per index

In order to determine if the backoff limit per index is exceeded we keep
track of the number of failures per index. For this purpose we use the Pod
annotation, `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`, which holds the value
of the number of pod failures for a given index. It is set to `0` for the first
pod created for a given index.

When Job controller sees a failed pod corresponding to a given index, and the
value of the annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` is greater
or equal to the configured backoff limit per index then the index is marked
as failed and added to `.status.failedIndexes`.

When Job controller creates replacement pods for failed pods for a given
index it checks if the index isn't finished yet (it is not in
`.status.failedIndexes` nor `.status.completedIndexes`).
Then, if `x` is the highest `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`
for the index, the newly created pod will have the annotation set to `x+1`.

> In order to keep track of the number of failures per index, the Job controller

Reviewer 7: Are you considering failed as anything else than succeeded? I'm asking for rather edge case when a pod gets removed accidentally or intentionally?

removes finalizers of a failed pod for a given index, only once the replacement
pod (with incremented value of `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`) is
created, or the index is marked as failed in `.status.failedIndexes`. This means
that these are the main steps when handling a failed pod to prepare it for
deletion:
1. Pod is recognized as failed
2. pod UID is recorded in Job status (`.status.uncountedTerminatedPods`)
3. the replacement Pod is created
4. Pod's finalizer is removed

Here, the new feature adds a dependency between steps (3.) and (4.) as previously

> these steps could be performed in any order.

Reviewer 7: What are the implications of this dependency?

Author: It may delay pod removal by 10s. As the pod recreation is currently delayed by 10s by backoff.

Author: I've realized that we should probably count in this mode backoff delay per index as well, if we want to make the indexes independent. Added a section on that in Design Details. PTAL @alculquicondor @soltysh

Note that, the first step (1.) will also be impacted by
[KEP-3939: Consider Terminating pods as active pods in Jobs.](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3939)

### Failed indexes format

> The format of the `.status.failedIndexes` field is analogous to the one used for

Reviewer 7: Maybe link to https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/2214-indexed-job#track-completed-indexes-in-job-status

For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
-->

The following scenarios will be covered with integration tests:
- enabling, disabling and re-enabling of the `JobBackoffLimitPerIndex` feature gate
- handling of the `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` when the `FailIndex` action is used,
- handling of the `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` when `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` isn't set,
- handling of the `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` when `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` is set.

More integration tests might be added to ensure good code coverage based on the
actual implementation.

##### e2e tests

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.

For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html

We expect no non-infra related flakes in the last month as a GA graduation criteria.
-->

> The following scenarios will be covered with integration tests:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The following scenarios will be covered with e2e tests:
```

#### Upgrade

An upgrade to a version which supports this feature should not require any
additional configuration changes. In order to use this feature after an upgrade
users will need to configure their Jobs by specifying
`.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex`.
There is no difference in behavior of Jobs if `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` is
not set.

#### Downgrade

A downgrade to a version which does not support this feature should not require
any additional configuration changes. Jobs which specified
`.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` (to make use of this feature) will be
handled in a default way, ie. using the `.spec.backoffLimit`.

<!--
If applicable, how will the component be upgraded and downgraded? Make sure
this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing an upgrade/downgrade strategy for this
enhancement:
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to maintain previous behavior?
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to make use of the enhancement?
-->

### Version Skew Strategy

> This feature is limited to control plane.

Reviewer 7: Right, but you still have coordination between the kube-apiserver and kube-controller-manager, don't you?

Author: Correct, but withing control plane we only need to support skew when kube-apiserver is N+1 relative to kube-controller-manger (https://kubernetes.io/releases/version-skew-policy/#kube-controller-manager-kube-scheduler-and-cloud-controller-manager). So, we can be sure that the Job controller in kube-controller-manager operates on Job objects which support the new API.

Author: Added a short note along the lines.

conversion tests if API types are being modified.

Additionally, for features that are introducing a new API field, unit tests that
are exercising the `switch` of feature gate itself (what happens if I disable a
feature gate after having objects written with the new field) are also critical.
You can take a look at one potential example of such test in:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/97058/files#diff-7826f7adbc1996a05ab52e3f5f02429e94b68ce6bce0dc534d1be636154fded3R246-R282
-->

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.
-->

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

The change is opt-in, it doesn't impact already running workloads.

<!--
Try to be as paranoid as possible - e.g., what if some components will restart
mid-rollout?

Be sure to consider highly-available clusters, where, for example,
feature flags will be enabled on some API servers and not others during the
rollout. Similarly, consider large clusters and how enablement/disablement
will rollout across nodes.
-->

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

> N/A

Reviewer 7: How about increased queue length for jobs, or sync duration?

Author: Added some around generic syncJob time, and increase number of pods due to delayed removal of finalizers.

  - Which API(s):
  - Estimated increase:
-->

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?

  Yes, but only when the `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` field is set.

  - API type(s): Job
  - Estimated increase in size:
    - New `.status.failedIndexes` field in Status. In the worst-case scenario is
      when every second index is failed, 10^4 indexes failed, and the last is
      at completions-1; assuming completions are at 10^6 it translates to 70KB.
      (see also [The Job object too big](#the-job-object-too-big)),
    - New `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` field of `*int32` is 12 bytes.

  - API type(s): Pod
  - Estimated increase in size:
    the new annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` to keep the
    current number of retries per index. Is around 50 bytes.

<!--
Describe them, providing:
  - API type(s):
  - Estimated increase in size: (e.g., new annotation of size 32B)
  - Estimated amount of new objects: (e.g., new Object X for every existing Pod)
-->

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing time taken by any operations covered by existing SLIs/SLOs?

> No.

Reviewer 7: How about the dependency between steps 3 and 4 in tracking failed indexes?

Author: This may indeed increase the total number of pods for a short while as the finalizer removal is delayed. Added a note. Not sure though if there is any SLO/SLI covering this.

  - [Failure mode brief description]
    - Detection: How can it be detected via metrics? Stated another way:
      how can an operator troubleshoot without logging into a master or worker node?
    - Mitigations: What can be done to stop the bleeding, especially for already
      running user workloads?
    - Diagnostics: What are the useful log messages and their required logging
      levels that could help debug the issue?
      Not required until feature graduated to beta.
    - Testing: Are there any tests for failure mode? If not, describe why.
-->

###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

## Implementation History

<!--
Major milestones in the lifecycle of a KEP should be tracked in this section.
Major milestones might include:
- the `Summary` and `Motivation` sections being merged, signaling SIG acceptance
- the `Proposal` section being merged, signaling agreement on a proposed design
- the date implementation started
- the first Kubernetes release where an initial version of the KEP was available
- the version of Kubernetes where the KEP graduated to general availability
- when the KEP was retired or superseded

> -->

Reviewer 7: This is missing.

Author: updated

is racy in its nature. For example, in-between the checks by the Job controller,
Kubelet execute more restarts than the specified `.spec.backoffLimit`.

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

We believe that this feature can be supported well by using the pod-level API,
started in this KEP:
[Add a new field maxRestartTimes to podSpec when running into RestartPolicyOnFailure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3322).

Once the pod-level API is done, it could be considered to support `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex`
when`restartPolicy=OnFailure` in pod's spec. In this case we could set the pod-level
`maxRestartTimes` field based on the Job-level `.spec.backoffLimit`, leaving the
responsibility of enforcing the limit to the Kubelet.

### Set backoffLimitPerIndex at the top level

We could set the backoffLimitPerIndex at top-level in order to put it next to
the backoffLimit field. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  backoffLimit: 4
  backoffLimitPerIndex: true
  ...
```

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

The backoffLimitPerIndex is also conceptually close to maxFailedIndexes.

> We will consider this option based on the community feedback.

Reviewer 7: See my other comment on the topic, would be good to get feedback from api reviewers about it.

Author: +1 from me, @deads2k @alculquicondor wdyt? 

Maybe we can have something like runPolicy in Job v2, and for now just put the new fields top level, next to backoffLimit?

### Enforce backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex

We've also considered to support both `backoffLimit` and integer
`backoffLimitPerIndex`. In that case the Job would be marked failed if the
global counter of failures `backoffLimit` is reached, as well as if the
index-scoped limit is hit.

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

We don't see a natural use case for this, so it seems an unnecessary
complication. Also, the default value for `backoffLimit` of 6 might often be

> not enough when `backoffLimitPerIndex` is used, leading to potential mistakes.

Reviewer 7: Another reason why this shouldn't be a warning but a hard fail.

Author: Still, the use case (as suggested by @deads2k) for setting custom backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex before downgrade applies. Maybe it is not that important though, I'm fine with hard fail in the first iteration. WDYT @deads2k ?

not need to be as detailed as the proposal, but should include enough
information to express the idea and why it was not acceptable.
-->

### Alternative ways to support high number of completions

In the current proposal the high number of completions (like 10^6) is supported
by specifying the `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` field. This way the size
of the `failedIndexes` field is controlled.

See below for alternative approaches proposed.

#### Keep failedIndexes field as a bitmap

In order to squeeze more failed indexes we could use bitmap.

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

- it is not human readable which might be useful for manual inspection
- it is harder to parse by user-provided controllers
- it introduces another format to keeping the succeeded indexes in `.status.completedIndexes`

#### Keep the list of failed indexes in a dedicated API object

The idea is to keep the heavy fields outside of the Job API object itself.
It could be a new API object, for example JobFailedIndexes.

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

This approach significantly increases the complexity of the Job controller that

> needs to register and manager another API object. This may also have a performance

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
needs to register and manage another API object. This may also have performance
```

to fail the entire Job if the number of failed indexes exceeds 50%. I want to
do this in order to cut down costs of running the tests in case of compilation
issues that would result in all tests failing.

The following Job configuration could satisfy my use case:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  runPolicy:
    backoffLimitPerIndex: 1
    maxFailedIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

#### The Job object too big

With the new field `.status.failedIndexes` the Job object can be significantly
larger as every failed index is recorded in the field. For example, using the
same format as for the `.status.completedIndexes` and allowing for completions

> equal to `10^6` the size of the field, in the worst-case scenario is 3.4MB, which

Reviewer 3: Actually, the worst case is much bigger, as @mwielgus pointed out offline. I opened a separate issue for the existing functionality https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118085

Author: Good point, updated the section.

Additionally, we propose the `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` to control
the maximal number of failed indexes. Once the number is exceeded the entire
Job is marked Failed and its execution is terminated.

We also propose to extend the PodFailurePolicy with a new action, called
`FailIndex` to allow an index to fail fast before reaching the backoff limit
per index.

### Job API

```golang

// PodFailurePolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled.
// +enum
type PodFailurePolicyAction string

const (
  // This is an action which might be taken on a pod failure - mark the
  // Job's index as failed to avoid restarts within this index. This action
  // can only be used when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  PodFailurePolicyActionFailIndex PodFailurePolicyAction = "FailIndex"
  ...
)
...

// JobRunPolicy describes custom policy for running a Job
type JobRunPolicy struct {

  // Specifies the limit for the number of retries within an
  // index before marking this index as failed. When enabled the number of
  // failures per index is kept in the pod's
  // batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count annotation. It can only

>   // be set to true when Job's completionMode=Indexed, and the Pod's restart

Reviewer 5: - Why this is not applied to non-index Job, it means `BackoffLimitPerIndex` works for all kinds of Job? I have no usecases, but still sounds reasonable as independent backOffLimit for independent jobs.
- Why only applied for Pods `restartPolicy=Never`? I guess the answer is  under `#support-backofflimitperindex-when-restartpolicyonfailure`, so still hope to support this feature when restartPolicy=Failure, this is a critical usecase for KEP https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3322

Author: > Why this is not applied to non-index Job, it means BackoffLimitPerIndex works for all kinds of Job?

I don't see what would be the meaning of `BackoffLimitPerIndex` for non-Indexed Jobs. I think it would simplify to `backoffLimit`, which we already have.

> Why only applied for Pods restartPolicy=Never?

It is racy if the restarts are controller by the Kubelet, while the limits are controlled by the Job controller (as in the Alternatives section). 

One possibility we could consider is that when `restartPolicy=OnFailure`, and `maxRestartTimes` is specified then we allow to specify at the Job controller level the `maxFailedIndexes` which would control the number of failed indexes (that ran out of restarts by maxRestartTimes)

### Mark Job Complete if some indexes failed

The alternative to the proposed [Job completion](#job-completion) strategy.

Allow execution of all indexes, up to `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` of
failed indexes. Then, mark the Job `Complete` even if some indexes failed.
The Job is marked `Failed` only if the number of failed indexes exceeds the
specified `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` limit, in that case, the `reason`
field could be `FailedIndexes`, and the `message` field would list the failed
indexes up to a couple of them.

**Reasons for deferring / rejecting**

This approach is less intuitive to the end-users of the API, compared
to the proposal. In particular, in some cases it would require custom logic in
the user's controller to determine if the Job is failed.

### Support backoffLimitPerIndex when restartPolicy=OnFailure

We've considered supporting the backoffLimitPerIndex when pod's `restartPolicy=OnFailure`.
However, in this mode it is Kubelet's responsibility to restart the pod, while
the maximal number of restarts would be enforced by the Job controller, which
is racy in its nature. For example, in-between the checks by the Job controller,

> Kubelet execute more restarts than the specified `.spec.backoffLimit`.

Reviewer 5: I don't think kubelet will execute more restarts than expected, but they do have race condition here.

Author: Let say Job's `backoffLimit=0`, and `restartPolicy: OnFailure`. Then, kubelet would restart the pod containers because it is unaware that Job's backoffLimit=0. Similar unncessary restarts can happen for higher backoffLimit.

It is then Job controller that enforces the limit on the job sync. We could use the similar strategy for backoffLimitPerIndex, but it seems better to delegate controlling the restarts to kubelet, by maxRestartTimes.

then each test run would only be able to find a single test failure.

Other popular batch services like AWS Batch use a separate backoff limit for each index,
showing that this is a common use case that should be supported by Kubernetes.

### Goals

- allow to count failures towards the backoffLimit independently for all indexes,
- allow to continue Job execution despite some of its indexes failing,
- allow to fail an index (stop recreating pods for the index) using pod failure policy.

### Non-Goals

- allow to control the number of retries per index when pod's `restartPolicy=OnFailure`
(see [Support backoffLimitPerIndex when restartPolicy=OnFailure](#support-backofflimitperindex-when-restartpolicyonfailure)).

<!--
What is out of scope for this KEP? Listing non-goals helps to focus discussion
and make progress.
-->

## Proposal

We propose a new policy of running Indexed Jobs in which the backoff limit
controls the number of retries per index. When the new policy is used all
indexes execute till their success or failure. We also propose a new API field
to control the number of failed indexes.

> Additionally, we propose a new action in PodFailurePolicy, called FailIndex,

Author: Done

  // It can only be specified when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  // The value is might be in range from 0 to 10^4.
  // It defaults to 10^4 when completions is greater or equal than 10^4.
  // +optional
  MaxFailedIndexes *int32
}

// JobSpec describes how the job execution will look like.
type JobSpec struct {
  ...

  // Specifies the policy for running a Job. In particular, it allows to enable
  // the backoff limit per index.
  // +optional
  RunPolicy *JobRunPolicy
  ...
}

type JobStatus struct {
  ...

  // FailedIndexes holds the failed indexes when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  // The indexes are represented in the text format analogous as for the
  // `completedIndexes` field, ie. they are kept as decimal integers
  // separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
  // more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
  // last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
  // For example, if the failed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
  // represented as "1,3-5,7".
  // +optional
  FailedIndexes *string
}
```

Here, setting `.spec.runPolicy.backoffLimitPerIndex` along with `.spec.backoffLimit`

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Author: The use case presented by @deads2k during an offline meeting is downgrade (or just skewed versions). The user may want to set `backoffLimit` equal `backoffLimitPerIndex` * `maxFailedIndexes` * `estimated pod failure ratio` to approximate as much as possible the new behavior with the current API. Otherwise, the default would be 6, which may be not enough for many jobs.

As for the need in the initial version - I leaning towards keeping it simple and error for now. @deads2k @alculquicondor wdyt?

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Reviewer 3: Defaulting will always set `backoffLimit`, so there will always be a warning. Unless we change the defaulting to not set `backoffLimit` if `backoffLimitPerIndex` is set. But:
- defaulting depending on other fields is discouraged
- it doesn't contribute to the downgrade story: the field would be unset.

I agree that it's much better to fail validation.

/lgtm cancel
as the design changed :)

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Author: @alculquicondor the current proposal is to default `backoffLimit` only if `backoffLimitPerIndex` isn't set. Can you point out why defaulting based on other fields is discouraged? 

> it doesn't contribute to the downgrade story: the field would be unset.

@deads2k explained to me that the defaulting happens on every read, and is persisted on the next write. Some reference for the mechanism would be good, can you provide @deads2k ?

I tested it this way: created a Job using a version when I can set `backoffLimit: nil` and `backoffLimitPerIndex: x`, then downgraded and the `backoffLimit` field was indeed set to 6. 

So, the downgrade will  be handled better than in the original proposal. In the original proposal if someone set `backoffLimit: 1` along with `backoffLimitPerIndex: true` the value of `1` will be used, which for most use-cases seem wrong.

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Reviewer 3: > Can you point out why defaulting based on other fields is discouraged?

I might be misremembering. Official docs are here:

https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#defaulting

I think the concern was around what happens when the user mutates the field A that the defaulted field B depended on. The user might be doing so from a yaml that has field A but doesn't have the field B. Then if they modify field A, and re-apply the yaml, the value of field B wouldn't be modified, which could lead to a failed validation, for reasons that are not immediately obvious (the user didn't set field B, why is it failing?).
However, in you case, you are leaving the field B (backoffLimit) nil, so maybe this kind of dependent defaulting is not problematic.

> So, the downgrade will be handled better than in the original proposal. In the original proposal if someone set backoffLimit: 1 along with backoffLimitPerIndex: true the value of 1 will be used, which for most use-cases seem wrong.

Features go through an alpha release (disabled by default) for a reason. This case would only happen if the user created a Job in a cluster that had an alpha feature enabled and later downgraded. We don't need to support that scenario.

In any case, it sounds like the proposed fields and defaulting should be fine. But I would fail validation if both fields are set, instead of producing a (mostly useless) warning.

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Author: It seems the consensus is that we should fail the validation. I will update the KEP if no objections. @deads2k wdyt?

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Reviewer 8: > I tested it this way: created a Job using a version when I can set `backoffLimit: nil` and `backoffLimitPerIndex: x`, then downgraded and the `backoffLimit` field was indeed set to 6.
> 
> So, the downgrade will be handled better than in the original proposal. In the original proposal if someone set `backoffLimit: 1` along with `backoffLimitPerIndex: true` the value of `1` will be used, which for most use-cases seem wrong.

I agree.  I think the defaulting behavior based on the PerIndex being set produces a downgrade experience more consistent with the known fields and it provides a slightly better experience for a user trying to have a single manifest to use on clusters that may or may not have this field. 

> I think the concern was around what happens when the user mutates the field A that the defaulted field B depended on. The user might be doing so from a yaml that has field A but doesn't have the field B. Then if they modify field A, and re-apply the yaml, the value of field B wouldn't be modified, which could lead to a failed validation, for reasons that are not immediately obvious (the user didn't set field B, why is it failing?).
However, in you case, you are leaving the field B (backoffLimit) nil, so maybe this kind of dependent defaulting is not problematic.

In this case, eliminating the conditional field results in exact parity with previous behavior, so the user's expectations are met.  The job_controller needs to properly honor optional fields, but optional fields are already optional so we would expect that to be true.  The same state existed for clients during the rollout of `backoffLimit` when some servers returned it and some did not.

> It seems the consensus is that we should fail the validation. I will update the KEP if no objections. @deads2k wdyt?

Doing this will make patch requests for the `backoffLimit` field behave unpredictably for older clients that aren't aware of `backoffLimitPerIndex` because both fields would be set. This amounts to tightening validation.  We can make a warning because it's not breaking, but we cannot make it hard fail and maintain compatbility with prior clients.

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Reviewer 3: > Doing this will make patch requests for the backoffLimit field behave unpredictably for older clients that aren't aware of backoffLimitPerIndex because both fields would be set.

Why would both values be set in these older clients?
Defaulting doesn't run in the client code, only in the server.

If the server returns a `nil` backoffLimit, I would expect clients to either modify backoffLimit or leave it untouched. If an old client is modifying `backoffLimit`, it probably doesn't need the semantics of `backoffLimitPerIndex`.

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Author: I'm fine with error or warning, but leaning towards error. If we go for warning it seems it is a transient phase when old clients might be used against the new Job API. Thus, we should in that case think of promoting the warning to error for GA, or GA+k. Personally, I feel this is an unnecessary complication. @deads2k do we have a precedent for the warning strategy in a similar case?

> results in a warning. Still, we leave it possible to set both fields to allow

Author: After an offline discussion with @alculquicondor and @deads2k we concluded to support setting both `backoffLimit` and `backoffLimitPerIndex`. First, it allows for controller downgrade, second older clients can still read and modify the backoffLimit. Also, the proposal is to default the backoffLimit to max int32 (when backoffLimitPerIndex is set), so that it is effectively not enforced.

- [ ] (R) KEP approvers have approved the KEP status as `implementable`
- [ ] (R) Design details are appropriately documented
- [ ] (R) Test plan is in place, giving consideration to SIG Architecture and SIG Testing input (including test refactors)
  - [ ] e2e Tests for all Beta API Operations (endpoints)
  - [ ] (R) Ensure GA e2e tests meet requirements for [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
  - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
  - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]

> - [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

Author: Done, marked the PRR-related checkboxes ahead of time (so that no updates are needed once PRR is approved).

  runPolicy:
    backoffLimitPerIndex: true
    maxFailedIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

#### The Job object too big

With the new field `.status.failedIndexes` the Job object can be significantly
larger as every failed index is recorded in the field. For example, using the
same format as for the `.status.completedIndexes` and allowing for completions
equal to `10^6` the size of the field, in the worst-case scenario is 3.4MB, which
could put significant overhead on fetching the Job object data from etcd.

In order to mitigate this risk we constrain the maximal number of failed indexes
stored in the `.status.failedIndexes` field to `10^5` by:
- limiting `.spec.completions` to `10^5` if `spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` is
  not specified

> - `spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes` if specified; and the max number of failed

Author: Yes, but this part is rephrased now, and completions are limited at 10^6.

Job is marked Failed and its execution is terminated.

We also propose to extend the PodFailurePolicy with a new action, called
`FailIndex` to allow an index to fail fast before reaching the backoff limit
per index.

### Job API

```golang

// PodFailurePolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled.
// +enum
type PodFailurePolicyAction string

const (
  // This is an action which might be taken on a pod failure - mark the
  // Job's index as failed to avoid restarts within this index. This action
  // can only be used when backoffLimitPerIndex=true.
  PodFailurePolicyActionFailIndex PodFailurePolicyAction = "FailIndex"
  ...
)
...

// JobRunPolicy describes custom policy for running a Job
type JobRunPolicy struct {

  // Specifies if backoffLimit is used to limit the number of retries within an
  // index before marking this index as failed. When enabled the number of
  // failures per index is kept in the pod's
  // batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count annotation. It can only
  // be set to true when Job's completionMode=Indexed, and the Pod's restart
  // policy is Never.
  // The value is immutable.
  // Defaults to false
  // +optional

>   BackoffLimitPerIndex *bool

Reviewer 3: I would consider copying the `BackoffLimit` field in this struct, and requiring in validation that only one of them is set. This can serve backwards-compatibility while making users of `runPolicy` have everything in the same place.

There might be a concern about control-plane skew or version rollbacks. We can still handle this by taking the value for backoffLimit from either place, regardless of the feature gate. This is acceptable because it's not new functionality.

Author: It can be done, but we need to be careful. For example, say someone sets .spec.runPolicy.backoffLimit=5 (leaving .spec.backoffLimit=nil) on 1.28 (alpha) and downgrades. Then, the Job controller crushes, because it expects the .spec.backoffLimit to be set.

Also, backoffLimit is mutable, so there might be some controllers manipulating it, that would need to now first detect which backoffLimit is set.

Personally, I don't see much of a benefit from copying the field into the new struct, but let's see what others think.

Reviewer 3: > It can be done, but we need to be careful. For example, say someone sets .spec.runPolicy.backoffLimit=5 (leaving .spec.backoffLimit=nil) on 1.28 (alpha) and downgrades. Then, the Job controller crushes, because it expects the .spec.backoffLimit to be set.

You probably shouldn't downgrade a cluster with alpha features enabled :)
But if you do so, job controller won't crash, because we set the defaults when we read from etcd. Then what the job controller will see is the default: 6. This is acceptable, as the user was already trying to use an alpha field.

> Also, backoffLimit is mutable, so there might be some controllers manipulating it, that would need to now first detect which backoffLimit is set.

Yeah, that might be more problematic. For example, a controller using v1.27 APIs, running on a 1.29 cluster.

Reviewer 8: Let's not copy the `BackoffLimit` here.  If we ever created a v2 job (I'm not pitching for this at this moment), it probably makes sense to partition different types of jobs: indexed jobs appear to need different concepts for error failure handling.

Comparing two possible API options, what are the pros/cons of adding a new field for `PerIndexPodFailureCount` as opposed to changing the meaning of an existing field `BackoffLimit`?  Adding a new field avoids different handling in skew scenarios and allows for composing the features in meaningful ways.

Author: @deads2k thanks for looking into the KEP. 

We have considered the new *int32 field (with a tentative name `backoffLimitPerIndex`) that would work along with `backoffLimit`. This is mentioned in the Alternatives `Enforce backoffLimit and backoffLimitPerIndex` section.

The **pros** of a new `int32` field:
- allows for `backoffLimit` and `PerIndexPodFailureCount` to be enforced independently, giving more flexibility

The **cons** of the `int32` field:
- can be confusing to users. Having backoffLimit defaulting to 6 may result in unexpected Job terminations when `PerIndexPodFailureCount` is set. In most use cases, the user will only want to have `PerIndexPodFailureCount`. In that case we have two options:
  1. Set backoffLimit >= `completions` * `PerIndexPodFailureCount`, which requires non-obvious calculations from the user
  2. Leave backoffLimit nil (interpreted and infinity), we need to allow for this in validation, but in that case the Job controller would break on downgrade, as the current Job controller would panic consuming a Job with backoffLimit=nil.

Also, the flexibility mentioned as a pros can be achieved by combining `backoffLimitPerIndex=true` with `maxFailedIndexes`, to control both the number of failures within an index, and the total number of failed indexes. I

Author: I had an offline discussion with @deads2k and we believe the cons can be mitigated by following the approach in (ii) - backoffLimit=nil interpreted as infinity. 

My concern about the Job controller panic on downgrade isn't valid as the defaulting is also triggered on reads. So the Job controller would get the defaulted Job object. 

Moreover, the approach of having two fields would allow for a more controlled downgrade, as the user could specify both `backoffLimit` and `backoffLimitPerIndex` before downgrading. 

Still, in majority of cases setting both fields can be confusing so the idea is to validate such configuration as a warning. I'm about to update the KEP accordingly.

Author: @deads2k @alculquicondor Updated the KEP to use the *int32 field. PTAL.

Author: Resolving  the conversation. As agreed on a different thread the new fields are added at the top-level for the Job spec v1. We can consider different organization for v2 .

When Job controller sees a failed pod corresponding to a given index, and the
value of the annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` is greater
or equal to the configured backoff limit per index then the index is marked
as failed and added to `.status.failedIndexes`.

When Job controller creates replacement pods for failed pods for a given
index it checks if the index isn't finished yet (it is not in
`.status.failedIndexes` nor `.status.completedIndexes`).
Then, if `x` is the highest `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`
for the index, the newly created pod will have the annotation set to `x+1`.

In order to keep track of the number of failures per index, the Job controller
removes finalizers of a failed pod for a given index, only once the replacement
pod (with incremented value of `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count`) is
created, or the index is marked as failed in `.status.failedIndexes`. This means
that these are the main steps when handling a failed pod to prepare it for
deletion:
1. Pod is recognized as failed
2. pod UID is recorded in Job status (`.status.uncountedTerminatedPods`)
3. the replacement Pod is created (the new condition)

> 4. Pod's finalizer is removed

Reviewer 3: maybe this will need to happen in the next job sync, but we can figure this out during implementation.

Author: IIUC, in most of the cases currently anyway the pod recreation will happen before removal of the finalizer, in the same job sync, as both of the operations are capped at 500. If this is the case always then we should not observe any performance impact related to formalizing the dependency. 

I guess there might be some edge cases when the finalizer is removed before recreation, but for now I don't see such a scenario.

successful indexes, represented by the `completedIndexes` field, which is a
text format grouping consecutive integers into ranges. In a special case, when
the indexes are non-consecutive they are represented by comma-separated numbers.
In the worst-case scenario this is a string of comma-separated even values from
`0` to `.spec.completions-1`. In order to constrain the size of the field we
cap the number of completions (see [The Job object too big](#the-job-object-too-big)
for more details).

### Job completion

When backoff limit per index is used, then we execute indexes until all of them
are completed (either failed or succeeded).

Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when
all indexes are succeeded. The Job is marked as failed (the `Failed` Job condition)
when at least one index is failed. The `Failed` condition is added once
all indexes completed their execution (either failed or succeeded), or when
the number of failed indexes exceeds the specified `.spec.runPolicy.maxFailedIndexes`.
The `reason` field for the failed Job is `FailedIndexes` and the `message` field

> will list up to a couple of the failed indexes.

Reviewer 3: what's "a couple"? Please be more precise: 2, 3, 10?

Author: I was thinking this is implementation detail which can be figured out later. I think 3 sounds sensible, will update.

Reviewer 3: I just find the word "couple" very confusing, as I'm not sure if you mean literally 2.

Author: updated

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  backoffLimitPerIndex: 1
  maxFailedIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

#### The Job object too big

With the new field `.status.failedIndexes` the Job object can be significantly
larger as every failed index is recorded in the field.

Note that, the similar risk is also present for Indexed Jobs, regarding the
already existing `.status.completedIndexes` field (see
[Indexed Jobs can break with high number of parallelism or completions](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118085)).

In order to mitigate this risk we first constrain the `.spec.maxFailedIndexes`
to `10^5`, which is the same limit as for `.spec.parallelism` currently.

> Second, we soft-limit (warning from API when setting a higher value, and a warning in the user-facing documentation about setting higher values)

Author: I like the idea of strong limits if the new mode is used. Will update the KEP, but add a graduation step for Beta to reevaluate if the limits should be soft.

(see in [code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/job/backoff_utils.go#L160-L182)).
Thus, there is a risk that due to the presence
of pods hitting the fallback the last failure time is continuously bumped,
thus shifting the time to recreate the pod.

This risk is present both when computing the expotential backoff delay globally
(as for regular indexed Jobs), or per-index as proposed in in this KEP
(see [Expotential backoff delay per index](#expotential-backoff-delay-per-index)).

In order to mitigate this risk currently the time of last failure is recorded
in-memory (globally for all pods within a Job). And a new failed pod may bump
it only until it is added to the `uncountedTerminatedPods` structure.

However, tracking the last failure time per index might be costly for memory
consumption (see [Expotential backoff delay with in-memory tracking](#expotential-backoff-delay-with-in-memory-tracking)).

Thus, in order to mitigate this risk we propose to compute the finish time for
a pod as min value of the following (avoiding the ever-increasing fallback to `now`):
1. max `finishAt` of all containers, if specified for all containers

> 2. `LastTransitionTime` for the `Ready=False` condition

Reviewer 3: Does kubelet change the condition when the pod is marked with a deletionTimestamp?

Author: Yes, and this is what typically happens. Setting deletionTimestamp initiates the termination process by kubelet. Then containers are stopped, and finally the phase is changed to terminal (along with setting the condition). I was also thinking about checking the Reason field to be `PodFailed` or `PodCompleted` (https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/status/generate.go#L234-L247). Probably can be figured out during implementation.

- Complete features A, B, C
- Additional tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP

#### GA

- N examples of real-world usage
- N installs
- More rigorous forms of testing—e.g., downgrade tests and scalability tests
- Allowing time for feedback

**Note:** Generally we also wait at least two releases between beta and
GA/stable, because there's no opportunity for user feedback, or even bug reports,
in back-to-back releases.

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
[conformance tests].**

[conformance tests]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md

#### Deprecation

- Announce deprecation and support policy of the existing flag
- Two versions passed since introducing the functionality that deprecates the flag (to address version skew)
- Address feedback on usage/changed behavior, provided on GitHub issues
- Deprecate the flag
-->

#### Alpha

- the feature implemented behind the `JobBackoffLimitPerIndex` feature flag
- user-facing documentation, including the warning for setting completions > 10^5
- The `JobBackoffLimitPerIndex` feature flag disabled by default

> - Tests: unit and integration

Reviewer 3: Add the delay calculation change

Author: Done

indicate that it takes too long to delete the finalizers.

The feature is opt-in so in case of issues it is enough not to use the
backoffLimitPerIndex API field.

<!--
What signals should users be paying attention to when the feature is young
that might indicate a serious problem?
-->

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

It will be tested manually prior to beta launch.

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No.

<!--
Even if applying deprecation policies, they may still surprise some users.
-->

### Monitoring Requirements

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.
-->

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

> By the presence of the `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` field in the jobs.

Reviewer 3: for beta: let's consider a metric: perhaps `job_completed_index` with a label for `status=(failed|succeeded)`

Author: I like the idea, the only doubt is if it should be incrementing on regular indexed jobs. Then, it could skew results. Another label might be needed to distinguish.

Author: I proposed `job_finished_indexes_total`. I prefer `finished`, because currently in Jobs completed is often used as synonym to succeeded, which could be misleading.

Reviewer 3: +1
I think it's ok to do it for regular indexed jobs.

Author: Ok, proposed also the `backoffLimit=(perIndex|global)` to distinguish

a hanging indexes, so it is a "gap". Then, between every gap we have two indexes
listed. Thus, the size of the `completedIndexes` field is limited
by: `(10+1)*2*(10^4+10^4)=0.42Mi`, where:
- 10 is the maximal number of digits in the indexes
- 1 is for the separation character
- 2*(10^4+10^4) is the number of indexes explicitly listed in the field - two indexes per gap.

The size of the `failedIndexes` field is limited by: `(10+1)*10^4=0.105Mi`, where:
- 10 is the maximal number of digits in the indexes,
- 1 is for the separation character
- 10^4 is the maximal number of indexes present in the field.

Thus, the size of both fields is capped at `0.572Mi` for the limits in (1.) and
`0.525Mi` for the limits in (2.).

For comparison, before the introduction of `.status.failedIndexes`, the max
size of the `.status.completedIndexes` was limited by `(5+1)*10^5*2/3=0.382Mi` in
the (1.) case, and `(10+1)*2*10^4=0.21Mi` in the (2.) case. This means an increase
of `0.19Mi`.

The values of the limits are aligned with the values for the soft limits proposed
as a fix for the for regular indexed jobs
(see [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118085#issuecomment-1564520559)).

> However, in case when `backoffLimitPerIndexes` is used we propose these limits

Reviewer 8: +1 since this is a new field

the maximal number of failed indexes. Once the number is exceeded the entire
Job is marked Failed and its execution is terminated.

We also propose to extend the PodFailurePolicy with a new action, called
`FailIndex` to allow an index to fail fast before reaching the backoff limit
per index.

### Job API

```golang

// PodFailurePolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled.
// +enum
type PodFailurePolicyAction string

const (
  // This is an action which might be taken on a pod failure - mark the
  // Job's index as failed to avoid restarts within this index. This action
  // can only be used when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  PodFailurePolicyActionFailIndex PodFailurePolicyAction = "FailIndex"
  ...
)
...

// JobSpec describes how the job execution will look like.
type JobSpec struct {
  ...
  // Specifies the limit for the number of retries within an
  // index before marking this index as failed. When enabled the number of
  // failures per index is kept in the pod's
  // batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count annotation. It can only
  // be set when Job's completionMode=Indexed, and the Pod's restart
  // policy is Never.

>   // When specified, then the backoffLimit field is defaulted to the max int32

Reviewer 8: Setting a default to handle the downgrade cases is good.  Rather than max int, isn't the logical maximum for `backoffLimit` `backoffLimitPerIndex*completions` which is generally going to be much smaller?

Reviewer 3: Are you ok with defaulting based in another field? What if the user changes either of the 2 fields. They are both mutable.

Author: Yeah, setting `backoffLimit: backoffLimitPerIndex*completions` seems handy for downgrade. However, it might be surprising when used with [Elastic Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/3715-elastic-indexed-job) (when completions can be scaled up and down with parallelism). 

For example, a user may create a job with `completions: 1` and scale up to `completions: 10`. Then, it might be surprising why the job failed exceeding backoffLimit. 

Still, the user could have taken care about increasing `backoffLimit` as well, but it isn't obvious. It can be argued that users of Elastic Jobs should also control `backoffLimit` anyway, but it might be surprising to those who chose to use `backoffLimitPerIndex`.

I'm fine both ways, wdyt @alculquicondor @soltysh ?

Reviewer 8: > For example, a user may create a job with completions: 1 and scale up to completions: 10. Then, it might be surprising why the job failed exceeding backoffLimit.

This matches the current behavior of this field.  If a value isn't specified, the default is pinned when first stored.  Also, JSON doesn't serialize max int properly.

Author: > This matches the current behavior of this field. If a value isn't specified, the default is pinned when first stored. 

Yes, the difference is that users setting `backoffLimitPerIndex` may now not realize that `backoffLimit` was also set, so they might be surprised. Though, we can probably mitigate it by documentation.

> Also, JSON doesn't serialize max int properly.

Interesting, I did a quick search but didn't find a mention.

Anyway, I'm fine both with max int32 as well as with the `backoffLimit: completions*backoffLimitPerIndex` default.

wdyt @alculquicondor ?

Reviewer 8: stack overflow is the first hit, but we've bumped into this a few times: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13502398/json-integers-limit-on-size  Painful when it happens.

Reviewer 3: Max int32 is much lower than that, so we should be good. Unless you are suggesting another number?

Author: Yes, max int32 doesn't seem to be a problem, tested on the Mozilla link as well as in golang serializer / deserializer.

So I think we can safely focus on what is better for users, both approaches have some risks:
1. `backoffLimit=max int32` have a risk of pods restarting "forever" after downgrade
2. `backoffLimit=completions*backoffLimitPerIndex` may be surprising to users who scale up their Elastic Jobs, but didn't set `backoffLimit`. 

It seems that the risk (1.) is more serious if, say, downgrade is done by an admin, but the user is in a different timezone, then the Job pods might be failing for quite long. 

Also, the users of Elastic Jobs in "regular" indexed Jobs would need to be thoughtful of moving `backoffLimit` anyway, so it would not be regression for them. `backoffLimitPerIndex` can be an attractor for Elastic Job users, so that they don't need to control `backoffLimit`, but they could achieve that by setting it as max int32 themselves.

Given the arguments above I'm slightly leaning towards (2.). wdyt @alculquicondor , @soltysh ?

Author: oh, I somehow forgot this is a risk just for Alpha - if we downgrade from higher versions backoffLimitPerIndex will work. I'm sold on setting it to max. Is that fine @deads2k ?

Reviewer 8: I find it acceptable

Reviewer 7: Just to be safe can you add a proper test which ensures that json serialization is handled properly with that max int32, and document that in the code please.

Author: sure, wondering though what the best test should be though. Indirectly it will be checked by any integration test that sets backffLimitPerIndex.  I can have an integration test which creates the job and a client that loads the job and checks that backoffLimit is set to max int32.

Reviewer 7: I think even a simple round-trip encoding unit should ensure this is working as expected. I wonder if we could alter the default fuzzer we have for APIs to do just that.

Author: sg, added a point to the list of unit tests.

  // value. Also, once specified it cannot be set to nil.
  // +optional
  BackoffLimitPerIndex *int32

  // Specifies the maximal number of failed indexes before marking the Job as
  // failed, when backoffLimitPerIndex is set. Once the number of failed
  // indexes exceeds this number the entire Job is marked as Failed and its
  // execution is terminated. When left as nil the job continues execution of
  // all of its indexes and is marked with the `Complete` Job condition.
  // It can only be specified when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  // The value is might be up to 10^5 when completions is <= 10^5, or 10^4 when
  // completions > 10^5.

>   // It defaults to 10^4 when completions is greater than 10^5.

Reviewer 3: +1: require users to set the value, instead of defaulting based on another field.

>   // It defaults to 10^4 when completions is greater than 10^5.

Author: I see, I see two options to always either set it:
1. always default to completions (will be rejected if completions > 10^5 and maxFailedIndexes is unspecified)
2. leave it unspecified (if unspecified it is unlimited), but require to be specified when completions > 10^5, then only 10^4 is allowed.

Both sound sensible to me.

I will tentatively update to (2.) as it allows for easier integration with elastic jobs (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/3715-elastic-indexed-job. It will not require moving maxFailedIndexes along with completions and parallelism.

>   // It defaults to 10^4 when completions is greater than 10^5.

Reviewer 3: 2 for me

#### Alpha

- Feature implemented behind a feature flag
- Initial e2e tests completed and enabled

#### Beta

- Gather feedback from developers and surveys
- Complete features A, B, C
- Additional tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP

#### GA

- N examples of real-world usage
- N installs
- More rigorous forms of testing—e.g., downgrade tests and scalability tests
- Allowing time for feedback

**Note:** Generally we also wait at least two releases between beta and
GA/stable, because there's no opportunity for user feedback, or even bug reports,
in back-to-back releases.

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
[conformance tests].**

[conformance tests]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md

#### Deprecation

- Announce deprecation and support policy of the existing flag
- Two versions passed since introducing the functionality that deprecates the flag (to address version skew)
- Address feedback on usage/changed behavior, provided on GitHub issues
- Deprecate the flag
-->

#### Alpha

- the feature implemented behind the `JobBackoffLimitPerIndex` feature flag

> - user-facing documentation, including the warning for setting completions > 10^5

Reviewer 8: +1 for warning on the existing field, thanks.

However, tracking the last failure time per index might be costly for memory
consumption (see [Expotential backoff delay with in-memory tracking](#expotential-backoff-delay-with-in-memory-tracking)).

Thus, in order to mitigate this risk we propose to compute the finish time for
a pod as the first available value of the following (avoiding the ever-increasing
fallback to `now`):
1. max `finishAt` of all containers, if specified for all containers
2. `LastTransitionTime` for the `Ready=False` condition
3. `deletionTimestamp` - `deletionGracePeriodSeconds` if `deletionTimestamp` is set

Here (3.) is used to mark the moment of deletion which is used to approximate
the current behavior. (2.) is used when Kubelet loses track of one of its containers,
the `Ready=False` condition is set by Kubelet when transitioning a pod to `Failed`
phase: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/release-1.27/pkg/kubelet/status/status_manager.go#L1060-L1068.
When none of the above conditions is satisfied to compute the finish time we
fallback to the pod's creation time.

This fix can be considered a preparatory PR before the KEP, as to some extent
is solves the preexisting issue.

> 

Reviewer 9: > Job controller maintains a queue of tasks (syncJob invocations). So events such as pod updates don't directly trigger syncJob, but put the owning job into the queue. The queue is processed by workers (default: 5) which are triggered every 1s. So the batching is by deduplication of items in the queue within the 1s intervals.

I think this may not be enough potentially and I would like an additional subsection to discuss this risk in more detail.
Based on what you wrote, in the current implementation we know that we're processing at most 1 job in a given moment, but in thery there is nothing that prevents us from starting processing it again immediately after that.
So let's say our "job processing handler" is very fast and finishes after 1ms. Then we can in theory process a job 1000 times per second, so if it has 1MB, we produce 1GB of data per second from it. That's not something that I want.

I guess what i would like to ensure is that we will do some additional batching here and ensure that we don't do Job updates (to update its status) more than X times per second or sth like that.

FTR: We implemented some batching mechanism in endpoint-slice and it helped a lot:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/endpointslice/endpointslice_controller.go#L484

Author: I might have simplified a bit.

The Job controller would not start a new `syncJob` just by time every 1s. The syncs are queued based on pod events (add, delete, update). The pod events enqueue `syncJob` with 1s delay, so if we had 1000 pod updates within 1s, they would all de-duplicate in the queue, and execute when 1s elapses. 

Here it is in code: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/72a3990728b2a8979effb37b9800beb3117349f6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#LL500C49-L500C69.

In fact the mechanism looks very similar to the one for endpointslices.

I'm not sure a new "risk" subsection is needed, because I don't see how the changes would affect the number or frequency of job updates. 

In particular, each pod termination (thus pod update, either success or failure) would trigger a delayed `syncJob`, resulting in Job status update, because the `status.failed` or `status.succeeded` fields are incremented. 

The difference is that before, only `status.completedIndexes` were updated for successful pods, and now also `status.failedIndexes` might be updated for failed pods. However, both fields are updated on the same Job status update as incrementing the `.status.failed` or `.status.succeeded` counters.

Author: I have added the ` Too fast Job status updates` section which describes the current queuing mechanism. 

However, now I'm thinking there might be a bug in the way the current mechanism is used. In particular, there is this line: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/6195f96e56ee1e9f52986a0e768e22ca0d1949d6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L443 (which queues a new `syncJob` without a delay).  

Here, `pod_1` completion would result in Job status update, requeing a new `syncJob` without delay by line 443. Typically the next `syncJob` would be empty, so wouldn't requeue anything. However, if `pod_2` completes between the `syncJob`, then the invocation of `syncJob` will require another Job status update, thus requeuing another `syncJob` without delay (by the line 443). 

I think it is very unlikely that completing pods would create such a chain, so it is probably not a concern. However to be sure, we could adjust this line to also requeue with delay. Endpointslices do that. Is this something we are aware of, or it deserves an Issue? WDYT @alculquicondor @soltysh ?

Reviewer 3: We have run load tests with different job sizes and they didn't reveal any problem https://github.com/kubernetes/perf-tests/tree/master/clusterloader2/testing/batch

But proactively, we could add a quick check: if `.metadata.generation` didn't change, requeue with delay.

Author: I have opened a PR for this issue: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/118470.
However, it is a pre-existing issue in how we use the mechanism. So I suggest to track it outside of the KEP. wdyt @wojtek-t?

Reviewer 7: :+1: for the linked PR, I left there one small nit about an integration or unit test which could simulate that case.

Reviewer 9: yes - let's not track existing bug fixes as part of this KEP.

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

We introduce a new Job API field, called `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex`.
When set it limits the number of retries, counted independently for all indexes.

Additionally, we propose the `.spec.maxFailedIndexes` to control
the maximal number of failed indexes. Once the number is exceeded the entire
Job is marked Failed and its execution is terminated.

We also propose to extend the PodFailurePolicy with a new action, called
`FailIndex` to allow an index to fail fast before reaching the backoff limit
per index.

### Job API

```golang

// PodFailurePolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled.
// +enum

> type PodFailurePolicyAction string

Reviewer 9: This only defines a type - can you add a field (I'm assuming to JobSpec) that will take advantage of it?

Author: we already have a field: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/72a3990728b2a8979effb37b9800beb3117349f6/pkg/apis/batch/types.go#L204
It type is repeated in the KEP to set the context.

Author: Added a small note to clarify.

Reviewer 9: OK - sorry, somehow missed that.

  - Which API(s):
  - Estimated increase:
-->

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?

  Yes, but only when the `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` field is set.

  - API type(s): Job
  - Estimated increase in size:
    - New `.status.failedIndexes` field in Status and `.status.completedIndexes`
pre-existing field are impacted. When the scalability limits are respected,
then the maximal increase of the total size of both fields can be estimated
as `190Ki` (see [The Job object too big](#the-job-object-too-big) for more details),
    - New `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` field of `*int32` is 12 bytes.

  - API type(s): Pod
  - Estimated increase in size:
    the new annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` to keep the
    current number of retries per index. Is around 50 bytes.

<!--
Describe them, providing:
  - API type(s):
  - Estimated increase in size: (e.g., new annotation of size 32B)
  - Estimated amount of new objects: (e.g., new Object X for every existing Pod)
-->

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing time taken by any operations covered by existing SLIs/SLOs?

> However, we don't expect this increase to be captured by existing

Reviewer 9: nit: this somehow doesn't parse with the question :)

Author: Fixed, but removing "However" :)

  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./tests-runner"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

#### The Job object too big

With the new field `.status.failedIndexes` the Job object can be significantly
larger as every failed index is recorded in the field.

Note that, the similar risk is also present for Indexed Jobs, regarding the
already existing `.status.completedIndexes` field (see
[Indexed Jobs can break with high number of parallelism or completions](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118085)).

In order to mitigate this risk we first constrain the `.spec.maxFailedIndexes`
to `10^5`, which is the same limit as for `.spec.parallelism` currently.

Second, we validate if the fields are inside of the scalability limits:
1. `.spec.completions<=10^5`, `.spec.parallelism<=10^5`, `spec.maxFailedIndexes<=10^5`

> 2. `spec.completions` unlimited (<= max int32 ~2*10^9), `.spec.parallelism<=10^4`, `spec.maxFailedIndexes<=10^4`

Reviewer 9: Will those limits be exercised only if backoff-per-index is set?
If so, it sounds fine, if not, that's effectively not-backward compatible, right?

Author: Yes, the limits are only enforced with error when `backoffLimitPerIndex` is enabled. 

When `backoffLimitPerIndex` is not set we want to have just a warning above the limits, so that we don't break existing installations.

  // Specifies the maximal number of failed indexes before marking the Job as
  // failed, when backoffLimitPerIndex is set. Once the number of failed
  // indexes exceeds this number the entire Job is marked as Failed and its
  // execution is terminated. When left as nil the job continues execution of
  // all of its indexes and is marked with the `Complete` Job condition.
  // It can only be specified when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  // The value is might be up to 10^5 when completions is <= 10^5, or 10^4 when
  // completions > 10^5.
  // +optional
  MaxFailedIndexes *int32
  ...
}

type JobStatus struct {
  ...

  // FailedIndexes holds the failed indexes when backoffLimitPerIndex is set.
  // The indexes are represented in the text format analogous as for the
  // `completedIndexes` field, ie. they are kept as decimal integers
  // separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
  // more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
  // last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
  // For example, if the failed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
  // represented as "1,3-5,7".
  // +optional

>   FailedIndexes *string

Reviewer 9: I know that we technically don't increase the order of of magnitude in the size of the object, but for large objects it's important to ensure that the load from those will be somewhat limited.

I was pointing into that in the past for IndexedJobs that we need to ensure some batching around object (in particular status) updates and I think it happened, but can you double check and ensure that it is/will be the case?

Author: Job controller maintains a queue of tasks (`syncJob` invocations). So events such as pod updates don't directly trigger syncJob, but put the owning job into the queue. The queue is processed by workers (default: 5) which are triggered every 1s. So the batching is by deduplication of items in the queue within the 1s intervals.

text format grouping consecutive integers into ranges. In a special case, when
the indexes are non-consecutive they are represented by comma-separated numbers.
In the worst-case scenario this is a string of comma-separated even values. In
order to constrain the size of the field we cap the number of completions
(see [The Job object too big](#the-job-object-too-big) for more details).

### Job completion

When backoff limit per index is used, then we execute indexes until all of them
are completed (either failed or succeeded), or the number of failed indexes
exceeds the specified `.spec.maxFailedIndexes`.

Then, the Job is marked as completed (the `Complete` Job condition type) when
all indexes are succeeded. The Job is marked as failed (the `Failed` Job condition)
when at least one index is failed. The `Failed` condition is added once
all indexes completed their execution (either failed or succeeded), or when
the number of failed indexes exceeds the specified `.spec.maxFailedIndexes`.
The `reason` field for the failed Job is `FailedIndexes` and the `message` field

> will list up to 3 of the failed indexes.

Author: Correct

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

No.

<!--
Any change of default behavior may be surprising to users or break existing
automations, so be extremely careful here.
-->

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

Yes. Using the feature gate is the recommended way. When the feature is disabled
the Job controller manager handles pod failures in the default way, even if
`.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` is set.

<!--
Describe the consequences on existing workloads (e.g., if this is a runtime
feature, can it break the existing applications?).

Feature gates are typically disabled by setting the flag to `false` and
restarting the component. No other changes should be necessary to disable the
feature.

NOTE: Also set `disable-supported` to `true` or `false` in `kep.yaml`.
-->

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

The Job controller starts to handle pod failures according to the specified
`.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` or `.spec.maxFailedIndexes` fields.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

> Yes, unit and integration test for the feature enabled, disabled and transitions.

Reviewer 9: I guess the answer is no, as this code doesn't exist :)

Switch to "... tests will be added for [Alpha?]"

Author: Yeah, fixed :)

  - Estimated increase in size:
    - New `.status.failedIndexes` field in Status and `.status.completedIndexes`
pre-existing field are impacted. When the scalability limits are respected,
then the maximal increase of the total size of both fields can be estimated
as `190Ki` (see [The Job object too big](#the-job-object-too-big) for more details),
    - New `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` field of `*int32` is 12 bytes.

  - API type(s): Pod
  - Estimated increase in size:
    the new annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-index-failure-count` to keep the
    current number of retries per index. Is around 50 bytes.

<!--
Describe them, providing:
  - API type(s):
  - Estimated increase in size: (e.g., new annotation of size 32B)
  - Estimated amount of new objects: (e.g., new Object X for every existing Pod)
-->

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing time taken by any operations covered by existing SLIs/SLOs?

The added dependency of removing finalizers only after pod
recreation [Tracking the number of failures per index](#tracking-the-number-of-failures-per-index)
may keep pods around longer (around 10s which is the backoff for pod recreation)

> before actual deletion (requested or by PodGC).

Reviewer 9: We don't have any SLI/SLO around pod deleteion, so it won't really matter.

It's a useful notice, but I'm not sure it actually fits into this question.

Author: Ok, I delete this note from here as this is a copy-paste anyway from this section: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/3967/files#diff-4908561f5b948cdeee23dd68a5a9d77208c89394bb2f05b898a8d679802a8e46R1118-R1123

All code is expected to have adequate tests (eventually with coverage
expectations). Please adhere to the [Kubernetes testing guidelines][testing-guidelines]
when drafting this test plan.

[testing-guidelines]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-testing/testing.md
-->

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Prerequisite testing updates

<!--
Based on reviewers feedback describe what additional tests need to be added prior
implementing this enhancement to ensure the enhancements have also solid foundations.
-->

##### Unit tests

Unit tests will be added along with any new code introduced. In particular,
the following scenarios will be covered with unit tests:
- handling or ignoring of `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` by the Job
  controller when the feature gate is enabled or disabled, respectively,
- handling of ignoring of the pod failure policy rule with `FailIndex` action
- the `JobBackoffLimitPerIndex` feature gate is enabled or disabled, respectively,

> - validation of a job configuration with respect to `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex` by

Author: Added

We believe that this feature can be supported well by using the pod-level API,
started in this KEP:
[Add a new field maxRestartTimes to podSpec when running into RestartPolicyOnFailure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3322).

Once the pod-level API is done, it could be considered to support `.spec.backoffLimitPerIndex`
when`restartPolicy=OnFailure` in pod's spec. In this case we could set the pod-level
`maxRestartTimes` field based on the Job-level `.spec.backoffLimit`, leaving the
responsibility of enforcing the limit to the Kubelet.

We will re-assess the decision of the Pod-level API graduates to GA in the
KEP: [Add a new field maxRestartTimes to podSpec when running into RestartPolicyOnFailure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3322).
For example, when maxRestartTimes is specified for `restartPolicy=OnFailure`, then
we could support `maxFailedIndexes` which would allow to control the number of
failed indexes (that exceeded the `maxRestartTimes` and are marked failed).

### Set backoffLimitPerIndex inside runPolicy

> We could set the backoffLimitPerIndex at top-level in order to put it next to

Author: Removed the paragraph as the alternative of putting backoffLimitPerIndex inside runPolicy is already discussed in "backoffLimitPerIndex inside new runPolicy"

When a pod terminates (either failure or success), it triggers Job status update
to increment the `status.failed` or `.status.succeeded` counter fields. These
updates are also used to update the pre-existing `status.completedIndexes`
field, and the new `status.failedIndexes` field.

Second, in order to mitigate this risk there is already a mechanism present in
the Job controller, to bulk Job status updates per Job.

The way the mechanism works is that Job controller maintains a queue of `syncJob`
invocations per job
(see [in code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/72a3990728b2a8979effb37b9800beb3117349f6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L118)).
New items are added to the queue with a delay (1s for pod events, such as:
delete, add, update). The delay allows for deduplication of the sync per Job.

One place to queue a new item in the queue, specific to this KEP, is when
the expotential backoff delay hasn't elapsed for any index (allowing pod
recreation), then we requeue the next Job status update. The delay is computed
as minimum of all delays computed for all indexes requiring pod recreation,

> but not less that 1s.

Reviewer 9: This is not strictly related to PRR, rather wearing my scalability hat now.
[I would also be happy to discuss it separately if preferred.]

My concern is purely code-related - you have this magic `immediate` parameter in:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/6195f96e56ee1e9f52986a0e768e22ca0d1949d6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L499
I have concerns:
1)  why we want to use a different separate backoff in those cases (that effectively starts from 0 instead of 1s)
2) why we don't do any batching when Job object is changing itself, but I think the new PR (that doesn't do batching only when the job generation changes) seems to address this part

Author: (1.) I agree. IIUC the idea of backoff is to throttle pod creation in case of consecutive failures. This is covered already here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/6195f96e56ee1e9f52986a0e768e22ca0d1949d6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L1415-L1419. However, currently it is also used for throttling in other places for non-obvious reasons. It also might be a left over after a relatively recent refactoring of how backoff works. I think this was always a little bit underspecified, +1 to clean it up at some point.  Also, I think it makes sense to modify the final backoff as `max(1s, computed backoff)`, but this is a detail. @alculquicondor @soltysh wdyt? Maybe we should open a separate Issue to clean up the backoff status?

(2.) yes, I don't think we want to batch (delay) job updates in case of spec updates. For example, spec updates are used to update suspend status, which could result in delayed job start.

Reviewer 3: 1. Backoff is used for errors from API calls (like conflicts). It is not used for events (pod creation, updates, etc). I guess a better name for the variable would be `useBackoff` or have separate functions altogether.
2. We want to be able to respond to changes to the spec ASAP (new parallelism, suspend, etc).

Author: > Just open a PR with your proposal of what a clean code looks like :)

We have one PR currently open for the fix + potentially small cleanup. I will consider another in the future, but some changes may not be just cosmetic, but also touching on semantics (so requiring discussion). Still, I suggest we move this discussion out of KEP to offline, under PRs or under Issues.

Reviewer 9: For (1) - clearly backoff isn't used only for errors from API calls, because errors from API calls don't generate events and we have those in event handlers:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/6195f96e56ee1e9f52986a0e768e22ca0d1949d6/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L318-L321

@mimowo - while opening PR is certainly good thing, can you open an issue to so that we won't forget about it?

For (2) - I agree.

Author: @wojtek-t sure, opened: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118527

In order to mitigate this risk we constrain the maximal size of the
`.status.failedIndexes` and the `.status.completedIndexes` fields by:

> - soft limiting `.spec.completions` to `10^5` (warning above)

Reviewer 3: And documentation

Author: Added
